
Gyokuro LLC                                                      Patrick Coleman
                                                                 2021/07/17

Title: Homenet Project Outline
Author: Patrick Coleman
Date: July 17th, 2021

Introduction
     Homenet is my home network. When creating Gyokuro LLC, I didn't
     quite know exactly what I wanted to do or where I would end up. Inorder 
     to facilitate productivity, it was imperative that I design Homenet to be 
     flexible. Networking can be time consuming. When designing Homenet I wanted
     to make sure it embodied a "set it and forget it" archatecture; one that 
     could contract or expand without much effort. This meant I had to take careful
     consideration when designing my IP-Schema and to configure phisical devices
     to utilize automation and virtualization.
     
Physical Devices
     Homenet is comprised of 5 physical devices. Endpoint devices (3) are named 
     after Nintendo-64 games. Networking devices (2) are named after planets; 
     (or minor-planets)

     Dell Poweredge R720 (RAYMAN):
          RAYMAN is my Dell Poweredge R720. This has Proxmox installed on
          bare-metal. RAYMAN is where most of my network resides virtually.
          As of now there are about 7 Linux machines and a pfSense router
          running on it; all virtual. RAYMAN has a little over 2TB of local 
          storage for provisioning VMs and storing images. The are are 3 
          SAS-HDDs running in a RAID-5 configuration.
          
     Desktop_1 (GOLDENEYE):
          GOLDENEYE is my old desktop. I repurposed it into a SAN for 
          backups. GOLDENEYE runs Free-NAS and delivers block-storage over 
          my network using CHAPS authentication. RAYMAN uses GOLDENEYE as 
          a backup storage location. GOLDENEYE has 5 1TB ZFS-formatted drives
          They are in RAID-Z1 configuration which reduces the pool to around
          3.5TB of storage.
               
     Desktop_2 (PERFECT-DARK):
          PERFECT-DARK is my primary desktop. I don't actually do much work 
          on this machine, however I do use it to remote into my virtual 
          Ubuntu workstation and manage networking devices. I like to keep 
          my home device simple, so there is nothing on here really, other 
          than games and Mozilla.
      
      Netgear-AC1200 Router (venus):
          venus is the gateway device between my LAN and the WAN.
      
      Netgear-GS108PEv3 Switch (pluto):
          pluto is a switch that connects all my physical devices together.
          
      Below is a diagram of my physical network:
